+++
title = "Abstracts"
slug = "abstracts"
+++


#### **Bennett, M.** (2019). "How Far is Too Far? Generalization of a Regression Discontinuity Design Away from the Cutoff". Working Paper, Teachers College - Columbia University.<a id="grd"></a>

- ABSTRACT: Regression discontinuity designs are a commonly used approach for causal inference in observational studies. Under mild continuity assumptions, the method provides a robust estimate of the average treatment effect for observations directly at the threshold of assignment. However, it has limited external validity for populations away from the cutoff. This article proposes a strategy to overcome this limitation by identifying a wider interval around the cutoff for estimation using a Generalization of a Regression Discontinuity Design (GRD). In this interval, predictive covariates are used to explain away the relationship between the assignment score and the outcome of interest for the pre-intervention period. Under an assumption of conditional time-invariance in absence of the treatment, the generalization bandwidth can be applied to the post-intervention period, allowing for the estimation of average treatment effects for populations away from the cutoff. To illustrate this method, GRD is applied in the context of free higher education in Chile to estimate effects for vulnerable students. By exploiting the cutoff of eligibility in income per capita at the 5th income decile, results show that the introduction of free higher education (FHE) increased the probability of enrollment for students right at the cutoff by 7 percentage points. This result slightly decreases for students farther away from the cutoff: Students within a bandwidth of income per capita of M CL$500 below the threshold of eligibility experience a lower average treatment effect (5.6 percentage points) in enrollment due to FHE, though the difference between both estimates is not statistically significant.
    
#### Allende, C. & M. Bennett (2019). “Biased Beliefs and the Dynamic Role of Information in College Choice”.<a id="chile-rct"></a>
 
- ABSTRACT: “Even though information frictions have been widely studied regarding decisions involving higher education, most research has studied these frictions as static, overlooking the dynamic component that might be embedded in the process. In this study, we will focus on both components, static and dynamic, analyzing not only the potential frictions in the discrete decision of college-degree choice but also the dynamic decision in investment on college admission preparation itself. We will test this by conducting a randomized controlled trial (RCT) for senior high school students in Chile attending a large college admission test preparation institution, and providing students with information about institution-degree characteristics at (i) the beginning of the academic year (dynamic treatment), or (ii) shortly before the college application window (static treatment). The difference between the two treatment groups will allow us to distinguish between the static and dynamic roles of information. By leveraging the results of the RCT, we will be able to recover the key parameters of the decision model and their interaction. To better understand the mechanisms through which information may alleviate frictions, we propose to use a model. We plan to exploit the rich information contained in the rank-ordered lists students submit and rich student-level background information to recover preferences for program characteristics. Finally, we can use the parameters of our model and the estimated treatment effects to understand the implications of scaling up an intervention to the whole population. Congestion for programs with more attractive characteristics may also increase the cutoff scores for admission, so results may be hindered once the program is expanded.”
