+++
title = "Research"
slug = "research"
+++

You can download my full CV **[here](/files/CV_mbennett.pdf)**

## PHD RESEARCH 

* **Bennett, M.** (2019). "How Far is Too Far? Generalization of a Regression Discontinuity Design Away from the Cutoff". Working Paper, Teachers College - Columbia University.
<span style="font-size: 50%; background: inherit;">
    - ABSTRACT: "Regression discontinuity designs are a commonly used approach for causal inference in observational studies. Under mild continuity assumptions, the method provides a robust estimate of the average treatment effect for observations directly at the threshold of assignment. However, it has limited external validity for populations away from the cutoff. This article proposes a strategy to overcome this limitation by identifying a wider interval around the cutoff for estimation using a Generalization of a Regression Discontinuity Design (GRD). In this interval, predictive covariates are used to explain away the relationship between the assignment score and the outcome of interest for the pre-intervention period. Under an assumption of conditional time-invariance in absence of the treatment, the generalization bandwidth can be applied to the post-intervention period, allowing for the estimation of average treatment effects for populations away from the cutoff. To illustrate this method, GRD is applied in the context of free higher education in Chile to estimate effects for vulnerable students. By exploiting the cutoff of eligibility in income per capita at the 5th income decile, results show that the introduction of free higher education (FHE) increased the probability of enrollment for students right at the cutoff by 7 percentage points. This result slightly decreases for students farther away from the cutoff: Students within a bandwidth of income per capita of M CL$500 below the threshold of eligibility experience a lower average treatment effect (5.6 percentage points) in enrollment due to FHE, though the difference between both estimates is not statistically significant."
</span>
    
* **Bennett, M**. & Bergman, P. (2019). “Better Together? Social Networks in Truancy and the Targeting of Treatment”. Journal of Labor Economics. *Accepted*. [:arrow_down:](/files/networks_paper.pdf)
    - <sup><sub>ABSTRACT: "There is concern the risky behaviors of teenagers, such as truancy, negatively influence the behaviors of others through their social networks. We develop a strategy to use administrative data of in-class attendance to construct social networks based on students who are truant together. We simulate these networks to document that certain students systematically coordinate their absences. We validate them by showing a parent-information intervention on student absences has spillover effects from treated students onto their peers. Excluding these effects understates the intervention’s cost effectiveness by 43%. We show there is potential to use networks to target interventions more efficiently given a budget constraint."</sup></sub>

* **Bennett, M.**, J. Vielma, & J. Zubizarreta (2019). “Building Representative Matched Samples with Multi-valued Treatments in Large Observational Studies”. Working Paper, Columbia University. [:arrow_down:](https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.06707)
    - <sup><sub>ABSTRACT: "In this paper, we present a new way of matching in observational studies that overcomes three limitations of existing matching approaches. First, it directly balances covariates with multi-valued treatments without requiring the generalized propensity score. Second, it builds self-weighted matched samples that are representative of a target population by design. Third, it can handle large data sets, with hundreds of thousands of observations, in a couple of minutes. The key insights of this new approach to matching are balancing the treatment groups relative to a target population and positing a linear-sized mixed integer formulation of the matching problem. We formally show that this formulation is more effective than alternative quadratic-sized formulations, as its reduction in size does not affect its strength from the standpoint of its linear programming relaxation. We also show that this formulation can be used for matching with distributional covariate balance in polynomial time under certain assumptions on the covariates and that it can handle large data sets in practice even when the assumptions are not satisfied. This algorithmic characterization is key to handle large data sets. We illustrate this new approach to matching in both a simulation study and an observational study of the impact of an earthquake on educational attainment. After matching, the results can be visualized with simple and transparent graphical displays: while increasing levels of exposure to the earthquake have a negative impact on school attendance, there is no effect on college admission test scores."</sup></sub>

* Allende, C. & **M. Bennett** (2019). "Biased Beliefs and the Dynamic Role of Information in College Choice".
    - <sup><sub>ABSTRACT: "Even though information frictions have been widely studied regarding decisions involving higher education, most research has studied these frictions as static, overlooking the dynamic component that might be embedded in the process. In this study, we will focus on both components, static and dynamic, analyzing not only the potential frictions in the discrete decision of college-degree choice but also the dynamic decision in investment on college admission preparation itself. We will test this by conducting a randomized controlled trial (RCT) for senior high school students in Chile attending a large college admission test preparation institution, and providing students with information about institution-degree characteristics at (i) the beginning of the academic year (dynamic treatment), or (ii) shortly before the college application window (static treatment). The difference between the two treatment groups will allow us to distinguish between the static and dynamic roles of information. By leveraging the results of the RCT, we will be able to recover the key parameters of the decision model and their interaction. To better understand the mechanisms through which information may alleviate frictions, we propose to use a model. We plan to exploit the rich information contained in the rank-ordered lists students submit and rich student-level background information to recover preferences for program characteristics. Finally, we can use the parameters of our model and the estimated treatment effects to understand the implications of scaling up an intervention to the whole population. Congestion for programs with more attractive characteristics may also increase the cutoff scores for admission, so results may be hindered once the program is expanded."</sup></sub>

* Tapia, J., J. Fabres, **M. Bennett**, G. Marshall, P. Mena, M. Escalante, D. Sabatelli, N. Dinerstein, D. Masoli, & J. Zubizarreta (2019). "Breastmilk and its effects in Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia and other major morbidities in Very Low Birthweight Infants". Working Paper.

## PREVIOUS RESEARCH

* Hilliger, I., C. Gelmi, L. Cifuentes, **M. Bennett**,  & J. de la Llera (2018). “Design and Implementation of an Alternative Admission Program to Engineering: Talent and Inclusion”. Studies of Higher Education (CSHE). 43(8) p.1454-1467. [:arrow_down:](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/03075079.2016.1263291?journalCode=cshe20)

* **Bennett, M.** (2014). “Socioeconomic Diversity within Schools: The Impact of a Preferential Voucher Scheme in Chile”, Master Dissertation, London School of Economics.

* Claro, F., R. Paredes, F. Wilson y **M. Bennett** (2013). “Incentivos a Estudiar Pedagogía: El Caso de la Beca Vocación de Profesor” (“Incentives for studying teaching: The case of the vocational scholarship”), Estudios Publicos N°131, Centro de Estudios Públicos. [:arrow_down:](https://www.cepchile.cl/cep/site/artic/20160304/asocfile/20160304100405/rev131_FClaro-RParedes-MBennett-TWilson.pdf)

* Naslund-Hadley, E., E. Vezza, P. Giovagnoli, **M. Bennett** (2012). “Rethinking Sequencing of Pregnancy, School Dropout and Marriage: An Analysis of DHS Data on Early Childbearing and Educational Trajectories in Six Latin American Countries”, Report, Inter-American Development Bank.

* **Bennett, M.** & R. Paredes (2012). “Cognitive Abilities and Preschool Education in Chile”, Working Paper, Department of Industrial Engineering, Faculty of Engineering PUC.
